# 2.3 Constitution



The Initium Constitution (_Constitution_) is a unique feature of the Initium protocol, significantly improving the ecosystem's confidence and security. It is a set of rules that govern the protocol. These rules are called _Regula_. Every Regula serves a purpose in the Constitution. The Initium community governs the _Constitution_ and can set a new _Regula_ and alter or terminate an existing _Regula_ in _Imperium DAO_. The implementation of changes to the Constitution needs at least 51% of the Initium validators to execute it.

Initium Constitution contains two categories of Regulas:

* _Permanent Regulas_: refers to the Regulas set at the Genesis Event and govern the network's key issues, including account creation, Inflation Schedule, etc. These Regulas cannot be changed.&#x20;
* _Temporary Regulas_: these are the Regulas set by the Genesis Event or the community and are subject to change. It includes transaction fees, transaction restrictions, etc. Initium community can put these Regulas in Imperium DAO.&#x20;

It is necessary to note that the governance of the Constitution has hysteresis, meaning that changes to Regulas are highly dependent on their recent changes. There are two limits associated with each governable Regula: time and range. Once a parameter is changed using a governance transaction, it becomes tough to change it immediately and by a more significant number of tokens. These difficulties and value constraints relax as more time passes since the last change. These restrictions are in keeping with the design philosophy and predictability: the Constitution must never change drastically over a short period., allowing users to safely predict the system parameters in the Constitution in the short term while having strong control and flexibility for a long time. &#x20;

****
