# 2.4 Governance Models

Initium governance will be executed based on two different models as discussed below:

### 2.4.1 Pre-Genesis Governance Model

Since the majority of $INIX tokens during the Pre-Genesis era are subject to vesting time, the governance issues will be limited to the community-oriented issues Initium Ventures decisions. Initium Foundation will raise the primary principle for voting by the community.&#x20;

In this period, due to the locking of the majority of the $INIX tokens, the stakeholders will receive voting tokens, called "INIX Vote Token" ($vINIX), based on their staking. The owners of unlocked $INIX tokens need to stake their $INIX tokens to mint $vINIX tokens for participating in DAOs. The minting of $vINIX will be done using RedWrap by a 1:1 ratio. The users can burn their $vINIX tokens to re-mint their $INIX tokens.&#x20;

The HODLers of Seed Funding Sales, Private Investors Sales, Validators Staking Sales, Initium Foundation, and Team allocations whose tokens are subject to a vesting period will receive an equal amount of $vINIX tokens to their $INIX tokens.&#x20;

The HODLers of $INIX tokens subject to the Public Sales Options A and B can participate in voting by minting $vINIX using RedWrap upon the termination of their vesting period. During this period, they can vote using the Transparency portal, which represents their votes based on their $INIX holdings. The Transparency votes will be added to the related DAO votes for final results.

### 2.4.2 Post Genesis Governance Model

By the Genesis Event, the voting model in the Initium governance will change. The Initium DAOs use a token-based quorum model for vote casting. To prevent any manipulation in the voting process, the Initium Foundation will implement DAO-oriented tokens. Every DAO has its dedicated Voting Token, pegged at a 1:1 ratio to INIX. Therefore, if any community member wants to cast his vote in a given DAO, he needs to convert his INIX tokens to that DAO token.&#x20;

This model has many advantages, including:

* Prevents vote manipulation by owners of large amounts of INIX.&#x20;
* Provides incentives for honest voting.&#x20;
* Enables the owners of smaller quantities of $INIX to cast their votes.&#x20;
* Rewards the community members based on their contributions to the DAOs.

These voting tokens are:

* **$BLOX**: the voting token used in Blox DAO.&#x20;
* **$VEND**: the voting token used in Ventures DAO.&#x20;
* **$CONT**: the voting token used in Imperium DAO.&#x20;
* **$COLE**: the voting token used in Collectio DAO.&#x20;

INIX holders can convert their $INIX tokens to their desired DAO tokens and vice versa using RedWap.&#x20;
