# Disclaimer

The presentation of this whitepaper (Available Information) is solely for informational purposes. Anyone interested in purchasing Tokens and participating in the Token Sale should consider the various risks before making any decision regarding the Token Sale. This whitepaper does not comprise any advice by the Initium Foundation or any of its affiliates, partners, and supporters or any recommendation to any recipient of the Available Information, by the virtue of any participation in the Token Sale or otherwise.&#x20;

The Available Information does not necessarily identify or claim to identify all the risk factors connected with Initium that is being further developed, the Tokens, the Token Sale, any future Token functionality, or the Available Information. After making such investigations as they consider essential, all the participants must make their independent evaluation of the merits of participating in the Token Sale and after taking their independent professional advice. Any participant in the Token Sale should check with and rely upon their own investment, accounting, legal, and tax representatives and consultants in respect of such matters concerning the Initium network that is being further developed, the Tokens, the Token Sale, any future Token functionality and the Available Information and to assess the financial risks, consequences, and appropriateness of the purchase of Tokens separately, or if in any doubt about the facts set out in the Available Information. Investment of $INIX Token comprises considerable risk. It might involve extraordinary risks that may lead to a loss of all or a significant portion of monies or monetary value utilized to acquire Tokens. Participants in the Token Sale are urged to understand completely, be aware of and accept the Initium's characteristics that are being further developed, the Tokens, the Token Sale, any future Token functionality, and the Available Information. If you are not prepared to accept any or all of the Terms or the risks set out, then YOU ARE URGED NOT TO PARTICIPATE IN THE TOKEN SALE. No guarantee or assurance is given by the Initium Foundation or by any of its Affiliates that the Initium Foundation's proposals, objectives, and/or outcomes set out in the Available Information will be achieved in whole or in part. You are urged to consider whether participation in the Token Sale suits you regarding your personal and financial circumstances and resources.

