# 4.6 Transaction Fees

Usually, on the networks like Ethereum, transactions include a fee field that indicates the maximum fee field a _slot leader_ is permitted to charge for processing a transaction. The cluster, on the other hand, agrees on a minimum fee. If the network is congested, the _slot leader_ may prioritize the transactions offering higher fees. That means the client won't know how much was collected until the cluster confirms the transaction and the remaining balance is checked. This mechanism would result in unexpected higher gas fees.

To provide a fair transaction fee structure, the Initium protocol categorizes the transactions into two categories:

_Regular transactions;_ refer to the simple transactions of $INIX or other tokens on the Initium blockchain. These transactions will be conducted with a fixed fee as low as 1,000,000 leptons (0.000001 $INIX).

_Feodis transactions_; refer to the more complex transactions, e.g. lanching a craft, smart contract, or MultiSig transactions. To reduce the transaction fees and provide a fair fee model for using the validators' resources, the Feodis Transaction Model will be used.&#x20;

### 4.6.1 Nature of Transaction Fees

Each transaction sent through the Initium network, to be processed by the current Prime Node and the validators and confirmed as a global state transaction, contains a transaction fee. Transaction fees offer many benefits in the Initium economic design, including;

* They provide unit compensation to the validator network for the CPU/GPU resources necessary to process the state transaction,
* They reduce network spam by introducing real cost to transactions,
* and provide potential long-term economic stability of the network through a protocol-captured minimum fee amount per transaction.

Network consensus votes are sent as normal system transfers, which means that validators pay transaction fees to participate in consensus.&#x20;

The proposed basic transaction fee (minimum fee) on the Initium network is 0.000005 $INIX which makes Initium one of the most cost-effective networks for users and developers.&#x20;

### 4.6.2 Use of Transaction Fees

To create a sustainable economy through protocol-based rewards and transaction fees, a fixed portion (50%) of each transaction fee will be added to the Staking Rewards Pool (discussed in section [4.5](4.5-staking-mechanism.md)), with the remaining fee going to the Fee Pool to be distributed among the validators as below:

* Prime Node: 5%
* Supervisor Node: 5%
* Validator Squad: 90% (will be distributed based on the transactions they verify)

The transaction fee mechanism incentivizes the validators to increase their staked $INIX, uptime, responsiveness, contribution to the network, and investing in their CPU/GPU resources.&#x20;

As mentioned earlier, each _prime_ and _supervisor_ node will receive 5% of the Fee Pool. This design intents to retain a given _prime_ node incentive to include as many transactions as possible within its prime-slot time while providing an inflation limiting mechanism that protects against "tax evasion" attacks (i.e. side-channel fee payments).

### **4.6.3 Feodis Fee Model**

Initium will benefit from an innovative congestion-driven fee model called _Feodis_. In the Feodis fee model, each validator uses _signatures per slot_ (SPS) to estimate network congestion and the _SPS target_ to estimate the desired processing capacity of the cluster. The validator learns the _SPS target_ from the genesis config, whereas it calculates _SPS_ from recently processed transactions.&#x20;

The genesis config also defines a target`lepton_per_signature`, the fee to charge per signature when the cluster operates at the _SPS target_. The client uses the `JSON RPC API` to query the cluster for the current fee parameters. Those parameters are tagged with a block hash and remain valid until that block hash is old enough to be rejected by the slot's Prime Node.

Before sending a transaction to the cluster, a client may submit the transaction, and fee _codex_ data to an SDK module called the _fee calculator_. So long as the client's SDK version matches the slot's _prime_ node version, the client is assured that its account will be charged the same number of leptons as the _fee calculator_.

The Feodis also allows the users to conduct different transactions with different priorities. For example, in a multi-level transaction, a user may prefer to prioritize the transactions by various parameters to be executed on the network. This is a handy capability, especially for smart contracts to prioritize transactions with complex varieties.
