# 3.3 Sales Allocations

$INIX token sales will be conducted before the $INIX TGE in different events with different prices, terms, and conditions as below.

### 3.3.1 Seed Funding Sales

It refers to selling the $INIX tokens to Initium's early supporters and investors. 12% of the Initial Supply equals 60M $INIX is allocated to the individual and institutional investors who want to join the Initium at seed funding. The seed funding tokens will be locked till the Genesis Event. Any unsold tokens remaining from Seed Funding Sales will be added to Initium Foundation Reserves (see [3.4](3.4-ecosystem-allocations.md)). The tokens subject to Seed Funding Sales are exempted from staking rewards during the Pre-Genesis era (see [3.6](3.6-staking-mechanism.md))

### 3.3.2 Private Investors' Staking Sales

It refers to selling the $INIX tokens to private investors after Seed Funding Sales. 9% of the Initial Supply equals 45M $INIX is allocated to the individual and institutional investors who want to invest in the Initium. The Private Investors' Staking Sales will be conducted in several rounds before and after the public sales. These tokens are under the custody of the Initium Foundation and can be sold based on auctions to fund the Initium projects. The Private Investors' Staking Sales tokens will be locked until the Genesis Event with 5% APY.

### 3.3.3 Validators Staking Sales

It refers to the special sales round for sales of $INIX tokens to the individuals or enterprises who will commit to running Initium validators. The investors in this category will be eligible to receive the Initium Licensed Validator badge. These tokens will be used for staking on Initium validators. 4% of the Initial Supply equals 20M $INIX is allocated to Validators Staking Sales. These tokens will be locked until the Genesis Event with 15% APY. The unsold tokens will be allocated to the Initium Foundation Reserves (see [3.4](3.4-ecosystem-allocations.md)).

### 3.3.4 Public Sales Options

It refers to selling the $INIX token to the public. Anyone meeting $INIX [Legal Terms](../appendixes/legal-terms.md) will be eligible to contribute to the Public Sales Options. 15% of the Initial Supply equals 75M INIX will be offered to the public in three sales options as followings:

**Public Sales Option A**

6% of the Initial Supply equals 30M $INIX with 12-month vesting. Public Sales Option A tokens will receive 20% APR for the locking period. The tokens later can be staked in the $INIX staking pools to obtain the regular APY. The unsold tokens from Public Sales Option A will be allocated to the Initium Foundation Reserves (see [3.4](3.4-ecosystem-allocations.md)).

**Public Sales Option B**

6% of the Initial supply equals 30M $INIX with 18-month vesting. Public Sales Option B tokens will receive 20% APY for the locking period. The tokens later can be staked in the INIX staking pools to obtain the regular APY. The unsold tokens from the Public Sales Option B will be allocated to the Initium Foundation Reserves (see [3.4](3.4-ecosystem-allocations.md)).

**Public Sales Option C**

3% of the _Initial Supply_ equals 15M $INIX with no vesting period. Public Sales Option C tokens will obtain a regular 10% APY as staking rewards at $INIX staking pools. The unsold tokens from the Public Sales Option C will be allocated to the Initium Foundation Reserves (see [3.4](3.4-ecosystem-allocations.md)).
